Copy edit custom component documentation (#8547)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/collector/building/authenticator-extension.md

Use this guide for general directions on how to build a custom authenticator and
see the
[API Reference Guide](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/collector/config/configauth)
for the semantics of each type and function.

If you need help, join the
[#opentelemetry-collector](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C01N6P7KR6W)
channel at the [CNCF Slack workspace](https://slack.cncf.io).

## Architecture

[Authenticators] in OpenTelemetry are just like any other extension, but they
also have to implement one or more specific interfaces that define how
authentication is performed (for example, authenticating HTTP or gRPC requests).
Use [server authenticators][sa] with receivers to intercept HTTP and gRPC
requests. Use client authenticators with exporters to add authentication data to
HTTP and gRPC requests. Authenticators can also implement both interfaces at the
same time, allowing a single instance of the extension to handle both incoming
and outgoing requests. Users of your authenticator might prefer having different
authenticators for incoming and outgoing requests. Keep the design flexible so
users can enable the component only on the server side, or only on the client

> side, or both if they choose.

Reviewer: This part is not new, but since users have to manually enable the use of an authenticator on the corresponding receiver/exporter, I'm not sure what kind of inflexibility would prevent them from using an authenticator on just one.

---

> The OpenTelemetry Collector allows receivers and exporters to be connected to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The OpenTelemetry Collector allows you to connect receivers and exporters to 
```

authenticators, providing a way to authenticate incoming connections at the
receiver side, and add authentication data to outgoing requests at the exporter
side.

This mechanism is implemented through [extensions]. This document will guide you
on implementing your own authenticators. If you are looking for documentation on
how to use an existing authenticator, refer to the Getting Started page and the
documentation for that specific authenticator. You can find a list of existing
authenticators in the registry on this website.

Use this guide for general directions on how to build a custom authenticator and

> refer to the up-to-date

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use this guide for general directions on how to build a custom authenticator and
see the 
```

> 

Reviewer 2: I can't leave a suggestion for this, but can you edit the above paragraphs to say:

```
[API Reference Guide](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/collector/config/configauth)
for the semantics of each type and function.
If you need help, join the
[#opentelemetry-collector](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C01N6P7KR6W)
channel at the [CNCF Slack workspace](https://slack.cncf.io).
```

[Authenticators] are regular extensions that also satisfy one or more interfaces

> related to the authentication mechanism. [Server authenticators][sa] are used

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Authenticators] in OpenTelemetry are just like any other extension, but they also have to implement one or more specific interfaces that define how authentication is performed (for example, authenticating HTTP or gRPC requests). Use [server authenticators][sa]
```

with receivers and can intercept HTTP and gRPC requests, while client
authenticators are used with exporters and can add authentication data to HTTP

> and gRPC requests. It is possible for authenticators to implement both

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with receivers to intercept HTTP and gRPC requests. Use client
authenticators with exporters to add authentication data to HTTP
and gRPC requests. Authenticators can also implement both
```

interfaces at the same time, allowing a single instance of the extension to
handle both incoming and outgoing requests. **Note:** Users may prefer having
different authenticators for the incoming and outgoing requests, so don't make

> your authenticator required to be used for both incoming and outgoing requests.

Reviewer 2: I like the change to "handle" here! ✨ 

```suggestion
handle both incoming and outgoing requests. Users of your authenticator might prefer having
different authenticators for incoming and outgoing requests. Keep the design flexible so users can enable the component only on the server side, or only on the client side, or both if they choose.
```

```

However, an authenticator will need to be referenced by a consuming component to
be effective. The following example shows the same extension above, now being

> used by a receiver named `otlp/auth`:

Reviewer 2: You can delete this paragraph. I added some of the content to the previous paragraph.

### Server authenticators

A [server authenticator][sa] is essentially an extension with an `Authenticate`
function, receiving the payload headers as a parameter. If the authenticator can
authenticate the incoming connection, it should return a `nil` error, or the
concrete error if it can't. As an extension, the authenticator should ensure to
initialize all the resources it needs during the
[`Start`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/collector/component#Component)
phase, and it is expected to clean them up upon `Shutdown`.

> The `Authenticate` call is part of the hot path for incoming requests and will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Authenticate` function runs for every incoming request, and the pipeline can’t move forward until
```

block the pipeline. Therefore, make sure to handle any blocking operations you
need to make properly. Specifically, respect the deadline set by the context, if
one is provided. Also, make sure to add enough observability to your extension,
especially in the form of metrics and traces. This will enable users to set up a
notification system that alerts them in case error rates exceed a certain level,

> as well as to debug specific failures.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
this function finishes. Because of that, your authenticator must avoid slow or unnecessary blocking work. If the `context` sets a deadline, make sure your code follows it so the pipeline isn't delayed or left hanging.

You should also add good observability to your authenticator, especially metrics and traces. This helps users set up alerts if errors start increasing and makes it easier for them to troubleshoot authentication problems.
```

### Client authenticators

A _client authenticator_ implements one or more of the interfaces defined in
[Client authenticators].

Similar to server authenticators, client authenticators are essentially
extensions with extra functions. Each authenticator receives an object that
allows it to inject the authentication data. For instance, the HTTP client
authenticator provides an
[`http.RoundTripper`](https://pkg.go.dev/net/http#RoundTripper), while the gRPC
client authenticator can produce a

> [`credentials.PerRPCCredentials`](https://pkg.go.dev/google.golang.org/grpc/credentials#PerRPCCredentials).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Client authenticators] are
extensions with extra functions that implement one or more of the defined interfaces. Each authenticator receives an object that
allows it to inject authentication data. For instance, the HTTP client
authenticator provides an
[`http.RoundTripper`](https://pkg.go.dev/net/http#RoundTripper), while the gRPC
client authenticator can produce a
[`credentials.PerRPCCredentials`](https://pkg.go.dev/google.golang.org/grpc/credentials#PerRPCCredentials).
```
